Create Blog “How-to-Set-Up-an-Automation-Pipeline-to-Achieve-Observability-on-HPE-GreenLake-for-Containers” (#1215)
hpe-dev-incubator/hpe-dev-portal: content/blog/how-to-create-a-ci-cd-pipeline-to-execute-automation-test-suite-with-hpe-greenlake-for-containers.md

---

> title: How to Set Up an Automation Pipeline to Achieve Observability on HPE

Reviewer: Original title sounds better to me. And publishing is easier without modifying it.

  GreenLake for Containers
date: 2022-06-09T11:05:39.047Z
featuredBlog: false
priority: 1
author: Sweta Katkoria
authorimage: /img/swetakatkoria_photo.jpg
thumbnailimage: /img/thumbnail2.jpg
tags:
  - hpe-greenlake
  - Automation
  - Grafana
  - observability
---
## Introduction

> *An HPE GreenLake Cloud Service, HPE GreenLake for Containers, is built upon HPE Ezmeral Runtime Enterprise and runs on a container-based Kubernetes orchestrated infrastructure.* Using the Clusters module of the HPE GreenLake Central dashboard, one can perform several cluster-related operations. A cluster can be created using default or custom machine blueprints, deleted, scaled up, or scaled-down using this module. A user can navigate to the HPE Ezmeral Runtime through which various applications can be deployed and containerization can be achieved. Additionally, the cluster detail page provides some interesting insights like CPU usage, memory allocation, and storage availability. Metrics like these are crucial to tracking application usage and, subsequently, determining the resources required to grow the business. Here is the image mentioned above.

Reviewer 2: Did you really want to italicize this whole sentence, or just "HPE GreenLake for Containers"?

In the 4th sentence, should the word "dashboard" be after "...can navigate to the HPE Ezmeral Runtime..."? I remember seeing that in another GreenLake blog post that talks of similar things.

Suggest changing the the last sentence here to read: "The image below illustrates what I mean."

![Cluster detail screen](/img/cluster-detail.jpg "Cluster detail screen")

> It can be useful to get historical trend data for such metrics to analyze application-specific metrics. Using past consumption data, a customer can decide if the cluster should be scaled up on some days of the year and scaled down on others. For a system administrator working on an abstract layer of application deployment, choosing the right blueprint is crucial. A graph indicating high memory usage over CPU usage might lead him to change blueprints that offer high compute resources. The purpose of this blog post is to illustrate how a person can implement the Automation Pipeline which can provide observability via the use of automation tools such as Katalon (UI automation tool), CircleCI (continuous integration and continuous delivery platform), MySQL (a database provider) and Grafana (an interactive visualization web application tool that uses time-series data to create meaningful graphs).

Reviewer 2: In the sentence that starts "The purpose of this blog post...", change "**which** can provide observability..." to "**to** provide observability..."

> It can be useful to get historical trend data for such metrics to analyze application-specific metrics. Using past consumption data, a customer can decide if the cluster should be scaled up on some days of the year and scaled down on others. For a system administrator working on an abstract layer of application deployment, choosing the right blueprint is crucial. A graph indicating high memory usage over CPU usage might lead him to change blueprints that offer high compute resources. The purpose of this blog post is to illustrate how a person can implement the Automation Pipeline to provide observability via the use of automation tools such as Katalon (UI automation tool), CircleCI (continuous integration and continuous delivery platform), MySQL (a database provider) and Grafana (an interactive visualization web application tool that uses time-series data to create meaningful graphs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be useful to get historical trend data for such metrics to analyze application-specific metrics. Using past consumption data, a customer can decide if the cluster should be scaled up on some days of the year and scaled down on others. For a system administrator working on an abstract layer of application deployment, choosing the right blueprint is crucial. A graph indicating high memory usage over CPU usage might lead him to change blueprints that offer high compute resources. The purpose of this blog post is to illustrate how a person can implement the Automation Pipeline and provide observability via the use of automation tools such as Katalon (UI automation tool), CircleCI (continuous integration and continuous delivery platform), MySQL (a database provider) and Grafana (an interactive visualization web application tool that uses time-series data to create meaningful graphs).
```

            branches:
              only:
                - master
    jobs:
      - checkout-workspace
      - copyright-check
      - gather-cluster-metrics
          requires:
            - checkout-workspace
      - cluster-scale-operations
          requires:
            - checkout-workspace          
      - update-results
          requires:
            - checkout-workspace 
```

**Sample CircleCI workflow can be demonstrated as below:** 

![Sample CircleCI Automation pipeline](/img/circleci-workflow.jpg "Sample CircleCI Automation pipeline")

**A csvDataSource.csv artifact file may look like what's shown below:**

```sql
IDCluster,DateTime,BlueprintType,CPUUsage,MemoryAllocation,StorageCapacity,WorkerNodeCount,ScalingRequired,ClusterScaleUpDuration,ClusterScaleDownDuration,ClusterCreationDuration,ClusterDeletionDuration
2a0810e6-0c32-451b-933b-74fbdf86358a,2022-06-15 20:00:00,standard,50%,70%,5GB,3,N,,,,
ce18d4e0-9af3-40da-8d43-266fe05d17ba,2022-06-16 20:00:00,standard,80%,70%,5GB,3,Y,01,,,
767801bd-7f1e-4a9a-804e-b560f168d968,2022-06-17 20:00:00,standard,10%,10%,5GB,4,Y,,01,,
r3b185d5-c96a-49a5-b6de-13ae93c93fd4,2022-06-18 20:00:00,standard,07%,10%,5GB,2,N,,,,
```

> As illustrated in the above data file, the UI automation run gathers data for the cluster where the application is deployed. A threshold value can be predefined for scaling requirements in the Katalon script. For example, 80% above usage should trigger scaling up, while 10% usage should trigger scaling down. As per the first record after app deployment, CPU and Memory metrics are 50% and 70%, respectively, for which scaling is not required which is marked as 'N' in the data file. On the second day, the CPU reached 80% usage, and the required time for a scale operation to complete is 1 minute, which is also captured. 

Reviewer 2: In the 4th sentence, please modify the end of the sentence to read:
"...respectively, for which scaling is not required **and** is marked as 'N' in the data file."

## How to Download Artifacts from CircleCI Workflow Dynamically?

> CircleCI provides [API Token](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/managing-api-tokens/#creating-a-personal-api-token) to view pipelines via an API interface. Based upon requirements, various [APIs ](https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/)can be selected. In the [postman ](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)tool, a user can try a combination of APIs for passing the output of one API result to the input of another API. A curl command for downloading artifacts from CircleCI API may look like the one mentioned below:

Reviewer 2: A suggested rewrite of the beginning of the first sentence here:
"CircleCI **offers** [API Token]..."

(when one says CircleCI provides API Token, it sounds as if one should say "an API Token", but I don't think that's what you really mean. "Offers" gets us around that issue...)

I believe "Postman" should have an initial capital "P"

```shell
curl -H "Circle-Token: $TOKEN" "https://circleci.com/api/v2/project/gh/$repo/$project/$JOB_ID/artifacts" | grep -o 'https://[^"]*csvDataSource[^"]*' \
   | wget --timeout=10  --verbose --header "Circle-Token: $TOKEN" --input-file -
```

## Grafana Dashboard Configurations

CircleCI build runs will collect the artifacts and those can be filled into databases like MySQL or Prometheus. In Grafana, various data source configurations are available, where the user has to configure the required data source. There are various chart options available for visual interpretation. By providing various MySQL queries, the required graph can be generated. 

> A sample MySQL query to display the maximum CPU, Memory, and Storage specific to the cluster name can be written for Grafana as mentioned below.

Reviewer 2: Place a comma after "...for Grafana..."

```sql
select ClusterName AS "Cluster Name",
max(cast(CPU as UNSIGNED)) as "Maximum CPU Usage",
max(cast(CPU as UNSIGNED)) as "Maximum Memory Usage",
max(cast(CPU as UNSIGNED)) as "Maximum Storage Usage",
from ClusterMetricsTable GROUP BY ClusterName;
```

**Finally, the Grafana dashboard appears as:**

![SampleGrafanaDashboard](/img/cluster-metrics-grafana.jpg "Sample Grafana Dashboard (Data is for illustrative purpose only. Axis are hidden)")

Note that, all data illustrated is for understanding purposes only. No relevance to actual HPE GreenLake performance is being shown or claimed in this blog post.

## Conclusion

> Through this blog, users can integrate various tools and generate observability metrics. When these graphs are analyzed, several objectives can be achieved, including selecting the right blueprint for the application or automating cluster scale-up or scale-down operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through this blog, users can integrate various tools and generate metrics for observability purpose. And by triggering actions based on these metrics, several objectives can be achieved, such as, selecting the right blueprint for the application or automating cluster scale-up or scale-down operations.
```

---

> title: How to Set up Automation Pipeline to Measure the Cluster Performance on

Author: Updated As per the Suggestion. 
How to Set Up an Automation Pipeline to Measure Cluster Performance on HPE GreenLake for Containers

## How to Use Automation Pipeline Tools?

In Katalon, Test cases can be structured using test suites with environment variables. Test execution can be parameterized and parallelized using profiles. Remote execution in Katalon Studio can be triggered by CI systems via Docker container or command-line interface. Automation job can be triggered for Cluster Creation operation, following via Cluster Scale Up, Cluster Scale Down, and Cluster Deletion operation, 

The scripts for the above operations include verification points and required performance metrics. The automation suite starts recording the required time for the cluster to become ready upon the trigger of the cluster creation process. Similar way other cluster operations related data can be collected. Katalon Studio provides HTML-based reports or console logs to view the data after execution has been done. Any test script can help to extract the required data in form of a plain text-based file like .csv. CircleCi provides functionality to export this .csv file as an artifact inside the job. 

> Sample skeleton of circle-ci configuration:

Reviewer 3: In addition to the CicleCI configuration script below, would you have any scripts or screenshots about Katalon to illustrate your CI/CD pipeline.

> Sample skeleton of circle-ci configuration:

Author: It should be CircleCI. Updated in the whole blog at 4 places.

```yaml
executors:
  katalon8_test_executor:
    docker: 
      - image: default/katalon8:latest
jobs:
    checkout-workspace:
    copyright-check:
    performance-run:
      executor:
        name: katalon8_test_executor
      steps:
        - checkout
        - run:
        - run:
          name: "Creating directory for artifacts"
          command: mkdir /tmp/project/
        - store_artifacts:
          path: /tmp/project/
```

> The Artifact File structure may look like the below:

Author: Updated to below, verify once:
An artifact file structure may look like what's shown below:
